-compose <operator>
the type of image composition
The description of composition uses abstract terminology in order to allow the
the description to be more clear, while avoiding constant values which are
specific to a particular build configuration. Each image pixel is represented by
red, green, and blue levels (which are equal for a gray pixel). MaxRGB is the
maximum integral value which may be stored in the red, green, or blue channels
of the image. Each image pixel may also optionally (if the image matte channel
is enabled) have an associated level of opacity (ranging from opaque to
transparent), which may be used to determine the influence of the pixel color
when compositing the pixel with another image pixel. If the image matte channel
is disabled, then all pixels in the image are treated as opaque. The color of an
opaque pixel is fully visible while the color of atransparent pixel color is
entirely absent (pixel color is ignored).
By definition, raster images have a rectangular shape. All image rows are of
equal length, and all image columns have the same number of rows. By treating
the opacity channel as a visual "mask" the rectangular image may be given a
"shape" by treating the opacity channel as a cookie-cutter for the image. Pixels
within the shape are opaque, while pixels outside the shape are transparent.
Pixels on the boundary of the shape may be between opaque and transparent in
order to provide antialiasing (visually smooth edges). The description of the
composition operators use this concept of image "shape" in order to make the
description of the operators easier to understand. While it is convenient to
describe the operators in terms of "shapes" they are by no means limited to
mask-style operations since they are based on continuous floating-point
mathematics rather than simple boolean operations.
By default, the Over composite operator is used. The following composite
operators are available:

Over
In
Out
Atop
Xor
Plus
Minus
Add
Subtract
Difference
Divide
Multiply
Bumpmap
Copy
CopyRed
CopyGreen
CopyBlue
CopyOpacity
CopyCyan
CopyMagenta
CopyYellow
CopyBlack



The behavior of each operator is described below.
OverThe result will be the union of the two image shapes, with opaque areas of
change-image obscuring base-image in the region of overlap.InThe result is
simply change-image cut by the shape ofbase-image. None of the image data of
base-image will be in the result.OutThe resulting image is change-image with the
shape ofbase-image cut out.AtopThe result is the same shape as base-image, with
change-image obscuring base-image where the image shapes overlap. Note this
differs from over because the portion ofchange-image outside base-image's shape
does not appear in the result.XorThe result is the image data from both
change-image andbase-image that is outside the overlap region. The overlap
region will be blank.PlusThe result is just the sum of the image data. Output
values are cropped to MaxRGB (no overflow). This operation is independent of the
matte channels.MinusThe result of change-image - base-image, with underflow
cropped to zero. The matte channel is ignored (set to opaque, full coverage).Add
The result of change-image + base-image, with overflow wrapping around (mod
MaxRGB+1).SubtractThe result of change-image - base-image, with underflow
wrapping around (mod MaxRGB+1). The add and subtractoperators can be used to
perform reversible transformations.DifferenceThe result of abs(change-image -
base-image). This is useful for comparing two very similar images.DivideThe
result of change-image / base-image. This is useful for improving the
readability of text on unevenly illuminated photos (by using a gaussian blurred
copy of change-image as base-image).MultiplyThe result of change-image *
base-image. This is useful for the creation of drop-shadows.BumpmapThe result
base-image shaded by change-image.CopyThe resulting image is base-image replaced
withchange-image. Here the matte information is ignored.CopyRedThe resulting
image is the red channel in base-image replaced with the red channel in
change-image. The other channels are copied untouched.CopyGreenThe resulting
image is the green channel in base-image replaced with the green channel in
change-image. The other channels are copied untouched.CopyBlueThe resulting
image is the blue channel in base-image replaced with the blue channel in
change-image. The other channels are copied untouched.CopyOpacityThe resulting
image is the opacity channel in base-image replaced with the opacity channel in
change-image. The other channels are copied untouched.CopyCyanThe resulting
image is the cyan channel in base-image replaced with the cyan channel in
change-image. The other channels are copied untouched. Use of this operator
requires that base-image be in CMYK(A) colorspace.CopyMagentaThe resulting image
is the magenta channel in base-imagereplaced with the magenta channel in
change-image. The other channels are copied untouched. Use of this operator
requires that base-image be in CMYK(A) colorspace.CopyYellowThe resulting image
is the yellow channel in base-imagereplaced with the yellow channel in
change-image. The other channels are copied untouched. Use of this operator
requires that base-image be in CMYK(A) colorspace.CopyBlackThe resulting image
is the black channel in base-imagereplaced with the black channel in
change-image. The other channels are copied untouched. Use of this operator
requires that base-image be in CMYK(A) colorspace. If change-image is not in
CMYK space, then the change-image pixel intensities are used.
