-operator channel operator rvalue[%]
apply a mathematical, bitwise, or value operator to an image channel
Apply a low-level mathematical, bitwise, or value operator to a selected image
channel or all image channels. Operations which result in negative results are
reset to zero, and operations which overflow the available range are reset to
the maximum possible value.
Select a channel from: Red, Green, Blue,Opacity, Matte, Cyan, Magenta, Yellow,
Black, All, or Gray. All only modifies the color channels and does not modify
the Opacity channel. Except for the threshold operators, All operates on each
channel independently so that operations are on a per-channel basis.
Gray treats the color channels as a grayscale intensity and performs the
requested operation on the equivalent pixel intensity so the result is a gray
image.
Select an operator from Add, And, Assign,Depth, Divide, Gamma, Negate,LShift,
Log, Max, Min, Multiply,Or, Pow RShift, Subtract,Threshold, Threshold-White,
Threshold-White-Negate, Threshold-Black,Threshold-Black-Negate, Xor,
Noise-Gaussian,Noise-Impulse, Noise-Laplacian,Noise-Multiplicative,
Noise-Poisson,Noise-Random, and Noise-Uniform.
Rvalue may be any floating point or integer value. Normally rvalue will be in
the range of 0 to MaxRGB, where MaxRGB is the largest quantum value supported by
the GraphicsMagick build (255, 65535, or 4294967295) but values outside this
range are useful for some arithmetic operations. Arguments to logical or
bit-wise operations are rounded to a positive integral value prior to use. If a
percent (%) symbol is appended to the argument, then the argument has a range of
0 to 100 percent.
The following is a description of the operators:
AddResult is rvalue added to channel value.AndResult is the logical AND of
rvalue with channel value.AssignResult is rvalue.DepthResult is channel value
adjusted so that it may be (approximately) stored in the specified number of
bits without additional loss.DivideResult is channel value divided by rvalue.
GammaResult is channel value gamma adjusted by rvalue.LShiftResult is channel
value bitwise left shifted by rvalue bits.LogResult is computed as
log(value*rvalue+1)/log(rvalue+1).MaxResult is assigned to rvalue if rvalue is
greater than value.MinResult is assigned to rvalue if rvalue is less than value.
MultiplyResult is channel value multiplied by rvalue.NegateResult is inverse of
channel value (like a film negative). An rvalue must be supplied but is
currently not used. Inverting the image twice results in the original image.Or
Result is the logical OR of rvalue with channel value.PowResult is computed as
pow(value,rvalue). Similar to Gamma except that rvalue is not inverted.RShift
Result is channel value bitwise right shifted by rvalue bits.SubtractResult is
channel value minus rvalue.ThresholdResult is maximum (white) if channel value
is greater than rvalue, or minimum (black) if it is less than or equal to
rvalue. If allchannels are specified, then thresholding is done based on
computed pixel intensity.Threshold-whiteResult is maximum (white) if channel
value is greater than rvalue and is unchanged if it is less than or equal to
rvalue. This can be used to remove apparent noise from the bright parts of an
image. If allchannels are specified, then thresholding is done based on computed
pixel intensity.Threshold-White-NegateResult is set to black if channel value is
greater than rvalue and is unchanged if it is less than or equal to rvalue. If
all channels are specified, then thresholding is done based on computed pixel
intensity.Threshold-blackResult is minimum (black) if channel value is less than
than rvalue and is unchanged if it is greater than or equal to rvalue. This can
be used to remove apparent noise from the dark parts of an image. Ifall channels
are specified, then thresholding is done based on computed pixel intensity.
Threshold-Black-NegateResult is set to white if channel value is less than than
rvalue and is unchanged if it is greater than or equal to rvalue. Ifall channels
are specified, then thresholding is done based on computed pixel intensity.Xor
Result is the logical XOR of rvalue with channel value. An interesting property
of XOR is that performing the same operation twice results in the original
value.Noise-GaussianResult is the current channel value modulated with gaussian
noise according to the intensity specified by rvalue.Noise-ImpulseResult is the
current channel value modulated with impulse noise according to the intensity
specified by rvalue.Noise-LaplacianResult is the current channel value modulated
with laplacian noise according to the intensity specified by rvalue.
Noise-MultiplicativeResult is the current channel value modulated with
multiplicative gaussian noise according to the intensity specified by rvalue.
Noise-PoissonResult is the current channel value modulated with poisson noise
according to the intensity specified by rvalue.Noise-RandomResult is the current
channel value modulated with random (uniform distribution) noise according to
the intensity specified by rvalue. The initial noise intensity (rvalue=1.0) is
the range of one pixel quantum span.Noise-UniformResult is the channel value
with uniform noise applied according to the intensity specified by rvalue.
As an example, the Assign operator assigns a fixed value to a channel. For
example, this command sets the red channel to the mid-range value:

gm convert in.bmp -operator red assign "50%" out.bmp



The following applies 50% thresholding to the image and returns a gray image:

gm convert in.bmp -operator gray threshold "50%" out.bmp



