-type <type>
the image type
Choose from:Bilevel, Grayscale, Palette,PaletteMatte, TrueColor, TrueColorMatte,
ColorSeparation, ColorSeparationMatte, or Optimize.
Normally, when a format supports different subformats such as bilevel,
grayscale, palette, truecolor, and truecolor+alpha, the encoder will try to
choose a suitable subformat based on the nature of the image. The-type option
may be used to tailor the output subformat. By default the output subformat is
based on readily available image information and is usually similar to the input
format.
Specify -type Optimize in order to enable inspecting all pixels (if necessary)
in order to find the most efficient subformat. Inspecting all of the pixels may
be slow for very large images, particularly if they are stored in a disk cache.
If an RGB image contains only gray pixels, then every pixel in the image must be
inspected in order to decide that the image is actually grayscale!
Sometimes a specific subformat is desired. For example, to force a JPEG image to
be written in TrueColor RGB format even though only gray pixels are present, use


gm convert bird.pgm -type TrueColor bird.jpg



Similarly, using -type TrueColorMatte will force the encoder to write an alpha
channel even though the image is opaque, if the output format supports
transparency.
Some pseudo-formats (e.g. the XC format) will respect the requested type if it
occurs previously on the command line. For example, to obtain a DirectClass
solid color canvas image rather than PsuedoClass, use

gm convert -size 640x480 -type TrueColor xc:red red.miff



Likewise, specify -type Bilevel, Grayscale,TrueColor, or TrueColorMatte prior to
reading a Postscript (or PDF file) in order to influence the type of image that
Ghostcript returns. Reading performance will be dramatically improved for
black/white Postscript if Bilevel is specified, and will be considerably faster
if Grayscale is specified.
